feat(docs): Aztecnr notes docs (#7168)
AztecProtocol/aztec-packages: docs/docs/guides/smart_contracts/writing_contracts/notes/custom_note.md

---
title: Using custom notes in Aztec.nr
---

It may be useful to write a custom note if you want to use a specific type of private data or struct that does not have a default implementation in Aztec.nr. Using a custom note means that the entire note is nullified with one nullifier, which may be better for your circumstances than having multiple notes that need nullified. 

If you want to work with values or addresses, you can check out [ValueNote](./value_note.md) or [AddressNote](./address_note.md). 

> ## Define a custom note

Reviewer: As above, consider if "note type" is clearer.

Author: updated all "custom note" to "custom note type"

A custom note can be defined with the macro `#[aztec(note)]` used on a struct:

#include_code state_vars-CardNote noir-projects/noir-contracts/contracts/docs_example_contract/src/types/card_note.nr rust

In this example, we are implementing a card note that holds a number of points as `u8`.

## Implement NoteInterface

You will need to implement a note interface for your note. Most of this is automatically generated by the `#[aztec(note)]` macro but can be overwritten. For your reference, this is what a note interface looks like:

#include_code note_interface noir-projects/aztec-nr/aztec/src/note/note_interface.nr rust

You will need to implement the functions `compute_note_hash_and_nullifier()` and `compute_note_hash_and_nullifier_without_context()` which tells Aztec how to compute nullifiers for your note.

#include_code note_interface noir-projects/noir-contracts/contracts/docs_example_contract/src/types/card_note.nr rust
 
In this example, these functions compute the note hash by using `compute_note_hash_for_consumption` and then generate a nullifier by hashing this note hash together with a secret.

### Methods

> You will likely want to implement methods in order to use your note easily within contracts. For example, this may be what a `new` method can look like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will likely want to implement methods in order to use your note easily within contracts. For example, this may be what a `new` method can look like, for creating a new note:
```

---
title: Using custom note types in Aztec.nr
---

> It may be useful to write a custom note type if you want to use a specific type of private data or struct that does not have a default implementation in Aztec.nr. Using a custom note type means that the entire note is nullified with one nullifier, which may be better for your circumstances than having multiple notes that need nullified. 

Reviewer: "entire note" comment in initial review not addressed.

title: Using custom note types in Aztec.nr
---

> It may be useful to write a custom note type if you want to use a specific type of private data or struct that does not have a default implementation in Aztec.nr. Using a custom note type means that the entire note can be nullified with one nullifier, which may be better for your circumstances than having multiple notes that need nullified. 

Reviewer: "entire note" nullification still isn't clear. Suggesting analogy to "singleton" if that is what you mean? But you possibly mean one nullifier for entire note type, and not multiple unique nullifiers per note?
```suggestion
It may be useful to write a custom note type if you want to use a specific type of private data or struct that does not have a default implementation in Aztec.nr. Using a custom note type also means that note can be like a singleton and thus only one nullifier, which may be better for your circumstances than having multiple notes that need nullification.
```

Author: well no, not like a singleton, like a note. you could for example use 3 privateImmutables instead of creating a note with three values. but when these values are spent you would have to create three nullifiers for each of the privateImmutables. when using one note they can all be nullified
